---
layout: post
title: 13 Hours
date: 2015-11-16 22:11:16
categories: book
tags: ["book", "good", "military", "nonfiction"]
pagecount: 352
---

I forget what movie I was at when I first saw the preview for
this upcoming movie, but I was pretty excited when I saw it. There
was a lot of talk about the Hilary Clinton email garbage which made
the whole investigation into Benghazi seem to be lost in the background.
After seeing the preview, I came across [*13 Hours*][13-amazon] in an
airport book store which surprised me as I did not know it was a
book before I heard about the movie. This made it onto my reading
list and I just got around to it thankfully in time before the movie
hits theatres.

I knew very little about what happened in Libya on September 11, 2012
so this book was one of those enjoyable occasions where I got to read
a nonfiction book about something that both interests me as well as
that I know virtually nothing about. The media coverage for the past
half year or so has focused so much on Hilary Clinton that the actual
events that took place during those 13 hours seems lost. I knew that
some people died but I did not know who, how many, or why. After reading
this book I have a much better understanding of what happened, although
as you would also find out after reading, we still do not really know
the full details of the why.

That should be ammended to say we do not know necessarily why the
compound in Libya was attacked in the first place, but we do know
that there were some critical mistakes and decisions that led to
casualties in some respects but also decisions that led to more
people being saved than otherwise.

Some other facts that came out of this book that I found particuarly
intersting is the interplay between
the different official government agencies and contract operators.
If you want to know a detailed account of what happened on the ground
this is the best way to find out. If you are looking for some
answers to political questions or really detailed analysis of the
causes or consequences of the attack then this is not the book
for you. Overall it was a well written narrative if not a bit
repeatitive at times. I would have liked to have a bit more
discussion about the aftermath, but that really was not the
purpose of the book so I should not fault it for that.

[13-amazon]:        http://amzn.com/145558228X

