--- 
layout: post
title: Spec Ops
date: 2015-07-01 11:07:40
categories: book
tags: ["book", "great", "history", "military", "nonfiction"]
pagecount: 432
---

I was looking for books related to the history of unconvential
warfare, and [*Spec Ops*][spec-amazon] kept popping up. This book
presents a theory for how to have a successful direct action
mission with a special operation force and uses eight case studies
starting with World War II to demonstrate these principles.

There are many interesting stories in the history of warfare,
some of these I knew the basic details and others were new to me.
The theory that is presented makes a lot of sense with a few
simple principles that are essential to success. The first
insight is that although a small attacking force is usually
always considered to be inferior to a large defensive force,
it is possible for the small force to temporarily achieve
relative superiority. The six principles of special operations
that allow the force to achieve and sustain relative superiority
long enough to be victorious are: simplicity, security, repetition,
surprise, speed, and purpose.

The eight cases studies were mostly successful, some more so than
the others. I think what would have made the book better would be
to analyze some missions that are generally considered to be failures.
The SF raid on Son Tay to rescue POWs in Vietnam is
analyzed in this book. It might be considered by some to be a failure
both politically and because no POWs were rescued. However, the mission
was definitely a success in terms of getting in and getting out
without a loss of life by a small attacking force against a much
larger defensive force. The intelligence was a failure, but the mission
itself was a success. The only one I can think of off the top of my
head is the attempt by Delta to raid the embassy
in Tehran, but they never even got close to beginning their assault
due to crashing in the desert.

This is a good piece of history with a solid theory that is backed up
by some compelling historic analysis. It would be nice if the author
later did a write up of the Osama bin Laden raid which he was part
of in terms of strategy.

[spec-amazon]:      http://amzn.com/0891416005

