---
layout: post
title: Annihilation
date: 2018-01-18T12:54:52-08:00
categories: book
tags: ["book", "fiction", "good", "scifi"]
pagecount: 208
---

Part of being married is experiencing new things that you would otherwise have not because of your
partner. I can't say that I always skipped the previews at the theater when I would go to see
movies, but my wife makes seeing the previews part of her theater going experience. During the
previews recently, I saw one for a movie called Annihilation which looked pretty interesting.
Digging into it a bit, it turns out it is a book and part of a trilogy. So I added
[*Annihilation*][ann-amazon] to my reading list and I'm really happy that I did. It is a short and
quite good read.

Science fiction is a genre that is bimodal for me. Most science fiction I enjoy, from *Dune* to
*Ready Player One*, but there are a lot that I hate. I hate the stuff that makes the technology or
the future or the whatever classifies it as science fiction the main point. I enjoy the books that
are telling a story that happen to be set in a world with different rules. Now if the different
world had no effect on the story then it would not really be science fiction, but the main point has
to be the story. Some things, like *Harry Potter*, explain away parts of the story by appealing to
their particular universe's quirks for a type of deus ex machina. Others just focus on the oddity of
the world with a less than interesting story that goes along with it. *Annihilation* is almost
exclusive focused on this fictional world and how it differs from our own, and yet that is what
makes it good. There is a compelling human story, but because of the plot, the interplay between the
oddity of this place and the human elements are what make the book good.

I highly recommend this book, I am holding off on my great rating only because it left me hanging
too much. I imagine this is because I just need to read all three books, but I still felt like it
was over too soon with too much left unanswered. I am happy to have read it before seeing the movie,
but I am definitely going to go out and see the movie as the book reads like it will have a cool
visual representation.


[ann-amazon]:    https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0374104093/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=rokob-20&camp=1789&creative=9325&linkCode=as2&creativeASIN=0374104093&linkId=180b2ecb35efbacf7097274622a5dcd5
