---
layout: post
title: Another Year In Review
date: '2019-01-01T17:08:17Z'
categories: life
tags:
- life
- parenting
- society
---

Another year in the books, and somehow they each seem to be crazier than the last. 2018 was really
separated by the end of July into two pretty distinct years. Taya and I have both gone mostly silent
on the internet for the past year, but even more so during the last 5 months. This has been a
conscious decsion to be present during the wild ride that begun with our daughter being born.

The first half of 2018 was spent getting ready for the baby to arrive, taking classes, acquiring
things, reading books. But also having long conversations about pregnancy, patriarchy, and soceity.
Some of those ended up getting recorded as we toyed with the idea of making a podcast about our
experience. Pregnancy and society's view of it is pretty wild. I think we might actually try to make
this podcast thing happen so all the good stuff will be there. I learned a lot about being
marginalized, something I don't have any real personal experience with.

The second half of 2018 has been keeping our daughter alive, happy, and thriving. Parts of the
process are very hard. The difficulty can be made better or worse depending on your support system.
If you have 24 hour nanny help then some things are easier. If you have parents or family who lives
close by and chips in, then again some things are certainly easier. At the same time, some things
are made harder by those support systems. You have to manage the help some times which can be rough
when it is supposed to be help. We did not have any round the clock nanny help. We did have Taya's
mother in town at various times each of which has been a tremendous help. The other difficulty,
usually for men, is getting time off of work. Most places have at least some maternity leave,
although even that could be better and is still terrible at some work places. I was fortunate to
work at a company which has the best paternity policy that I or anyone around us has heard of. I was
able to get 12 weeks of paid leave, which we decided to do as 8 weeks of paid leave followed by a 4
day work week for a few months. The time spent fully engaged in the parenting process, learning from
our daughter, bonding, already has more than paid dividends and will continue to be vitally
important as she grows up.

Most men are not able to spend that much time and I will be the first to
admit before I did it I had no idea what I was supposed to get out of it or what use I would be
during all that time. I am not the one feeding the baby, she mostly just eats and sleeps, so what is
the point of being around the house all that time? That atitude made sense before I went through it,
and let me tell you that is the wrong way to look at it. To be fair, my atitude towards things
changed beforehand during parenting classes, talking to Taya, and thinking about things myself. But
actually getting to spend the time really solidified my belief that a large majority of
dysfunctional family dynamics can be traced to a lack of fully supported time to spend becomming a
family. The first four weeks are a war zone and you are not really above water long enough to
contemplate what is going on. During week five, there is an existential crisis because it just keeps
going on, this difficult thing isn't over and in some ways it never will be. But by the end of eight
weeks, with an open dialogue with your partner and full engagement in the project, you come out the
other side with a deep sense of connection and understanding. It does not mean you have to think
everything is perfect or that you don't still have some existential questions, but it takes a solid
6 to 8 weeks to really adapt to the change. And the child has to adapt to you as well. The nuance
associated with understanding another person who cannot talk to you takes quite a bit of time. Some
times you get it right, some times your partner gets it right, some times we both get it wrong.

There is a lot to be said on this topic and I could keep writing or talking about it for quite some
time. But overall this year had a lot of growth. There are some things I wanted to do which I didn't
and others which I didn't think would happen which did. Such is life.

I am still mostly posting here just for the books I read so I have yet another year of reading data.
I tried to read more this year as I noticed I had fallen off the past couple years after hitting my
goal in 2015. See all the data [here](/reading/). I read 32 books, which is my second best year out
of the past 4. Surprisingly I read 17 fiction and 15 non-fiction which is the first time that my
fiction to non-fiction was not around 3:1. I didn't intentionally read more non-fiction, but I guess
that is just what came up on my list. Another year of mostly good books, I am pretty good at
screening books for whether I will like it or not. This is the biggest thing that helps me to read
more as I want to finish books I enjoy more. Bad books are just killer for momentum. My favorite
books this year were: [*Rise and Kill First*](/blog/2018-04-04-rise-and-kill-first/), [*The Shock
Doctrine*](/blog/2018-09-20-the-shock-doctrine/), [*The
Dispossessed*](/blog/2018-04-30-the-dispossessed/), [*NOS4A2*](/blog/2018-05-18-nos4a2/), and
[*Horns*](/blog/2018-03-08-horns/). Looking back there were a lot of books I really enjoyed this
year so that list is far from complete, but they stuck out more as I was thinking back. I'm hoping
to beat this year's total, but I am going to try to expand my horizons a little bit so we shall see.
I would be excited to read less if it meant higher quality, but there is nothing wrong with high
quality and high quantity.
