---
layout: post
title: Less
date: '2019-06-21T22:25:39Z'
categories: book
tags:
- book
- fiction
- great
pagecount: 273
---

Halfway through reading [*Less*][book-amaz] I came to the conclusion that I don't think I have read
a novel before with a gay protagonist. That says something about me more than this book.
I certainly have never read something where the sexuality of the main character is
discussed so frequently and drives the plot. Great character writing is such that no matter who you
are, you feel like you understand the characters and therefore have a empathetic connection. This is
a great book in that vein.

The ideas of growing older and the changing nature of who we are, who we love, and how
the world sees us is transcendent. The concept of the book is meta discussed within and as a reader
you are left to decide for yourself if you agree with the sentiment of the other's inside this
world. All this is wrapped in a comedy that is clever if not
always laugh out loud funny. The fictional writer-cum-protagonist has his work described as
magniloquent which describes this book very well (after I looked up what it meant). I understand why
it won the Pulitzer Prize as the writing was some of the more enjoyable I have experienced in a
while, not withstanding the amount of words I had to look up to make it through.

I highly recommend this book. It is short but not a short read as the chapters are awfully long
which are difficult for me to fight through.

[book-amaz]:      https://www.amazon.com/dp/B01MSICPW3
