---
layout: post
title:  "Filling in the gap - Work"
date:   2014-01-02 21:26:35
categories: update
tags: life past
---

Okay so even though nearly every post was lost from my last blog incarnation,
unless I can miraculously recover them, I am going to write this from the
perspective of picking up where I left off. My last post was on July 30, 2012
in which I discussed the fact that we moved down from San Francisco to Redwood
City. Interestingly I managed to recover that post and will put it up here
pretty soon when I get a chance.

So we moved to the suburbs, although in Silicon Valley because of where many of
the companies are, there is a bit of an inverted city/suburb dynamic so the
suburbs here are a bit different than in some other places, while at the same
time they are really very similar. For one, many people live in the city and
commute out for work, so often people live in the suburbs to avoid a commute
which is a non-traditional trade off. On the other hand, it is boring and there
are lots of family friendly things to do, so it is very traditional in that
sense. We live in Redwood Shores which is closer to San Carlos than Redwood
City, but that is my address so whatever.

Last you heard from me I was working as a Data Scientist at Facebook. I was
working on problems with Site Integrity mainly around fake accounts, spam, and
general account access (i.e. login, password recover, etc.). I have a lot to
say about Data Science or more accurately Analytics at Facebook, but I would
prefer not to say them until after I no longer work there. I don't really care
too much about how people there would react to what I have to say, I just don't
think it is right for me to say certain things in full because they are not all
that positive. I will write down my thoughts somewhere and save it so that I
don't have to look back and try to remember, but I won't publish anything until
after I leave. Anywho, I decided that I was not happy with the direction I was
headed nor with the overall work that I was involved in, but I still liked
working at Facebook a lot. I wanted to get back into purely writing code and
building things rather than analyzing what other people were building. I wasn't
positive that I would be able to find what I was looking for at Facebook, but I
had only been there a few months and I was pretty convinced that my general
malaise had to do with the work I was doing (or lack thereof) rather than the
place itself. So even though I did talk to a few other places and look around a
little, I decided to focus on finding something internally. I had played around
with Android through a Big Nerd Ranch course at work and some hackathon
projects, which really turned me on to mobile development, but I really don't
like Java and the Android ecosystem did not excite me that much. So I started
to look into Objective-C and iOS. Eventually I sent an email to someone I was
in bootcamp with who directed me to the manager of our iOS core team.

We have a think called a hackamonth where you can go work on a team for a month
to try it out and possibly switch or possibly just go back to what you were
working on. You can only do this after working for a year and you can only do
it so frequently, so I knew I had to wait until after February of 2013 to make
a switch. Therefore, I tried to wrap up what I was working on as best as I
could and started planning to move over to iOS. I met with the manager of the
core team and a couple of the guys on the team, and it seemed like exactly what
I was looking for. The only downside was that I had zero iOS experience, and I
hadn't written any serious C/C++ in a couple years. In addition to zero iOS
experience, I had zero Objective-C experience. I bought two books, one on iOS
and another on the language itself, and worked through them on nights and
weekends. I may have embellished a little bit to the people I spoke to about my
background in these areas only because I know I can learn extrememly quickly
and I have found that because most people cannot they assume that it is not
possible to go from nothing to productive as fast as I know I can. So I worked
out the logistics and had the hackamonth as my extended interview for iOS and
started on April 1 of 2013.

I had a few projects during the month which I was able to accomplish to
everyone's satisfaction which made it easy for me to stay on the team and
become a full time iOS software engineer. Over the past 9 months working on
iOS, I have learned an absolute shit ton about the platform and the language. I
have also had to grow my bag of software engineering tricks especially in the
areas of design patterns and concurrency. Over the past 3 or 4 months I have
been focusing exclusively on mobile networking which has been an entirely new
set of things for me to learn. I don't mean it in a bragging way, but I do
learn very quickly, so I would say that I am now quite productive on the team,
not quite at the level of the guys who have been doing this for years, but I
would feel comfortable in any iOS codebase or taking on nearly any size
project in Objective-C at this point. I have been immensely happy with this new
role, so much so that although I have considered what I might do elsewhere, I
have a lot that I can envision doing at Facebook that I don't really see myself
leaving soon.

That is the short version of my work life for the past 18 months. As I am still
not the best at understanding properitary from public I am going to defer
saying too much more in detail. Nonetheless, I see a ton of exciting
opportunities in iOS over the next year or so that I am glad to be working on.
In the longer term, I am thrilled to be developing some good engineering skills
by working on infrastructure. Oh I forgot to mention that, what used to be
known as the core team, is now known as iOS Product Infrastructure, to more
closely align with sister teams on Android and the web which do similar cross
cutting engineering. We write code as if the product engineers at Facebook are
our clients, so we build abtractions and systems that make them more productive
as well as solve problems in the general rather than having each group have to
solve the same things over and over. It is a really great place to learn a lot
about the practical design of software because if you fuck up an API it becomes
evident very quickly because of the pain it causes hundreds of other engineers.
