--- 
layout: post
title: Dune
date: 2015-08-03 19:08:19
categories: book
tags: book fiction great scifi
---

I had only vaguely heard of [*Dune*][dune-amazon]
before I decided to add it to my reading list. Well,
I had heard of it as this classic science fiction
novel, but I did not know anything about it, nor
the whole culture around it. For the first time in
a while a classic has really lived up to it's billing,
this is a really great book.

*Dune* is long in terms of page count and complex
in terms of invented culture and logos, but ultimately
it was not long or detailed enough to satisfy me. Don't get
me wrong, I was satisfied with the book, but there is
so much more that could have been added just to fill
in more details. I am definitely going to add the next
couple books in the series to my list.

Here is a science fiction book that does not rely too
heavily on just the novelty of the future or technology
to carry the story. Sure, most of the story revolves around
things that do not exist today, at least to a first
approximation. However, the majority of the book is metaphorically
the same as all of human history including today. There are
struggles over power, there are resources that some have
and some do not, there are flawed and complex people, there
exists ignorance and bigotry, love and war. These are all
themes you can relate to even if they happen to be personified
in sandpeople 8000 years in the future on a planet that is
not earth.

[dune-amazon]:      http://amzn.com/B00B7NPRY8

