---
layout: post
title: Takedown
date: '2015-12-10 21:12:24'
categories: book
tags: book fiction good thriller
---

I just finished [*Takedown*][takedown-amazon], which is book 5
in Brad Thor's Scot Harvath series. These books take me less
than 24 hours to put down, mostly because I have trouble doing
anything else until I find out what happens next. If you liked
the first four, you'll be just as pleased with this one.

*Children of Dune* which I just finished before this one took me
something like three weeks to read. Now I was not reading it in big
chunks like I usually do instead reading something like 30-45 minutes
a day, but still that is a long time for me to read a book that is
roughly 420 pages. *Takedown* which comes in at 433 pages took me
a day to read. I read in large chunks of time, I stayed up a little later
than I should have, I skipped doing some things I otherwise would have so
I could keep reading, etc. I wonder if it is more the material and therfore
my interest level, or it is the style and writing and therefore more
related to my ability to comprehend what is going on that accounts
for the difference in reading time. These Brad Thor books will never
win a Pulitzer, but they are fun and I enjoy the excitement of a
fun story that is not too philosophical or deep. On the other hand,
*Children of Dune* was overly philosophical at times and required
me to digest what was going on in smaller chunks. It was not that deep
or anything, it was just much more trying to have an underlying point
than just tell a story. This brings me back to the discussion I came
across earlier about kids books versus adult books. I could definitely
read a hundred kids books a year, but I am not entirely sure if I would
be better off doing that than reading 20 adult books. I guess one
needs to define *better* before really being able to answer that question.
I have found that I enjoy a mix of easier, enjoyable reading as well as
deeper, intellectually stimulating reading with probably a ratio of
two or three easier books for every one deeper book.

Anywho, *Takedown* was a quality addition to the Scot Harvath series
with yet another unique story with twists and turns from beginning
to end. I think it probably could be read by itself, but there is
quite a bit of back story that reading at least the first two
books in the series would help with.

[takedown-amazon]:    http://amzn.com/1451636156

