--- 
layout: post
title: Walden
date: 2015-07-21 18:07:29
categories: book
tags: book nonfiction okay
---

[*Walden*][walden-amazon] is yet another reminder that
not all classics are good. I have a suspicion that those
who pontificate on *Walden* only read the first couple
and maybe the last chapter. There are some interesting bits
in the chapter titled "Where I Lived, and What I Lived For"
and again a few in the conclusion. However, the majority
of the book is one of the most boring things I have ever
subjected myself to.

Thoreau writes at length
about where and when he saw a particular bird show up during
the fall and spring. If you actually read this whole thing,
every word, I dare you to say that less than 90% of it is extremely
repetative and boring.

In the substitantive parts, Thoreau often contradicts himself
and comes across as whining. I get why people like it if they
are only focusing on the quoteable parts that they agree with.
Take for instance some of these quotes:

> for a man is rich in proportion to the number of things which he can
> afford to let alone

<!-- -->
> I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, to front
> only the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn
> what it had to teach, and not, when I came to die, discover
> that I had not lived.

<!-- -->
> Those services which the community will most readily pay for,
> it is most disagreeable to render.

<!-- -->
> The prophets are employed in excusing the ways of men.

<!-- -->
> Our life is frittered away by detail. An honest man has hardly
> need to count more than his ten fingers, or in extreme cases
> he may add his ten toes, and lump the rest. Simplicity,
> simplicity, simplicity!

There are a few more that I marked but you get the idea. There are
certainly some pithy sayings that people could hold on to and form
their lives around. If one does this then they must regard the entire
work of *Walden* as a masterpiece. But, I tell you, it is mostly a waste
of time.

I also read *Civil Disobedience* which I found to be much more palatable,
this might be because it had a sense of focus and it was significanly
shorter. The same underlying moral philosophy can be found there as well,
including the self contradiction.

This book is only okay and I am now happy it is off my list of
things that I just have to read.


[walden-amazon]:       http://amzn.com/B000FC2K7Y 

