---
layout: post
title: Blowback
date: '2015-11-03 17:11:32'
categories: book
tags: book fiction good thriller
pagecount: 608
---

[*Blowback*][blowback-amazon] is book four in Brad Thor's Scot Harvath
series. I am not sure why I am sometimes able to suspend disbelief
and sometimes I am overwhelmed with bullshit, but for some reason
I have really enjoyed all of the Scot Harvath series. *Blowback* did
not disappoint, as it was right in line with the rest of the series
in terms of pacing, action, suspense, and all around fun reading.

One thing that has bothered me throughout the series, but didn't really
jump out at me until this book is the way the main character approaches
certain situations. He just has a way of doing and saying the wrong thing
which seems so obvious to me that it is wrong. Ultimately these decisions
cause some amount of trouble but lead to the desired outcome anyway. I am not
saying I expect the character to be perfect, but the bad decisions he makes
just seem too bad to the point of being out of character for a former DEVGRU
guy.

Brad Thor keeps finding ways to introduce potential world shattering calamity
in ways that are quite original. Although he did have the stereotypical Russians
with nukes plot in a previous book, that was still done with a twist. This book
has yet another interesting scenario that Harvath is able to essentially foil,
but which had me on the edge of my seat throughout wondering just how he was
going to do it.

I think this book could stand on its own, meaning that you could read and enjoy it
without reading the first three, but there are still quite a bit of allusions to prior
books that make reading these in order better than just randomly starting later on
in the series.

[blowback-amazon]:      http://amzn.com/B000FCKB84

