---
layout: post
title: Ubik
date: '2015-12-22 11:12:57'
categories: book
tags: book fiction okay scifi
---

Philip K. Dick is widely regarded as one of the top tier
science fiction writers of all time. At the same time, he
seems to have a bit of bimodal influence on people: either
you love him or you do not understand what the hype is all
about. I guess I should not have said that and then followed
it up with the fact that I am somewhere inbetween these two
extremes. I thought *Do Android's Dream of Electric Sheep?*
was quite good, but I think [*Ubik*][ubik-amazon] is only
okay. I wouldn't go out of my way to read this particular
story by PKD, but I also would not call it bad by any stretch
of the imagination. *Ubik* was definitely unique, funny,
thought-provoking, and exciting.

Most science fiction writing that is considered good is
considered as such because of the ideas not the writing
per se. Sometimes I come across a book that is supposed
to be classic in the genre, but I feel like that moniker
was given only because of the novelty rather than the prose.
The small sample of PKD that I have read so far leads me
to believe that he his writing can be top notch along with
the novelty of his ideas, however it is not always so.
I felt that Ubik had moments of quality writing, but
overall it lacked a certain flow due to poor pacing and
an odd style. I am pretty sure it was intentially confusing,
that was part of the story, but beyond that it was still
not that great of writing.

I would recommend this book to any science fiction fan,
but I would caution you not to judge PKD solely by this
work. I have yet to read a lot of his stuff, but
my understanding is that this is not on the top
of his totem pole. That being said, it is more of a short
story than a novel, so you would not be hard pressed
to grind this out in a day or two.

[ubik-amazon]:    http://amzn.com/0547572298

