---
layout: post
title: Giraffe
date: '2016-04-26 11:04:54'
categories: book
tags: book fiction great
---

[*Giraffe*][giraffe-amazon] is the debut novel by J.M. Ledgard although it
is the second book of his that I have read. I forget why I initially read
[*Submergence*][sub-me], but afterwards I wanted to read something else by
Ledgard and I figured his debut was a good a place as any to look.

*Giraffe* is technically based on a true story, but it definitely falls into
the historical fiction category more than nonfiction. His writing style is
descriptive and had me looking up words every now and then. I think part of
that is him being from Scotland and currently living in Africa. There are just
certain phrasings that are uncommon in America that I think are more common
in Great Britain.

I mentioned I was reading this book to someone and when I tried to describe it,
a book about giraffes in Czechoslovakia during the 70s with part of the story
told by a Giraffe herself, I realized how out there it seemed. The reality though
is much more of a humanistic study than historical. The thoughts and feelings
of those involved are really what drives this book forward, It just so happens
that there is a surreal plot and setting that they are living in. What is even
more crazy is that this is basically true, one of those truth stranger than fiction
scenarios. Most of the stories set in the communist countries during the 1960s and 1970s
are really hard to believe from someone like me based on when and where I was born.
Part of that is based on movies and books making a caricature of those places at that
time that the reality seems to be mixed up with stereotypical fictionalizations to the
point that it is hard to accept the truth.


[giraffe-amazon]:     http://amzn.com/B001P9W9PO
[sub-me]:             http://andrewledvina.com/book/2015/12/14/submergence.html

